{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12060\viewh22080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 polygome\
v0.97\
matthew davidson\
stretta.com\
\
\
\
quick start\
--------------\
1) monomeserial prefix must be set to gome. Click the /sys/prefix /gome message box to set this up.\
\
2) make sure the internal clock is running. This is should be on by defailt when you open.\
\
3) set a valid MIDI destination with the MIDI assignment menu. \
\
4) (optional) configure tilt setup and click checkboxes to enable tilt control of duration and velocity\
\
5) start pressing buttons - it works polyphonically - up to eight patterns.\
\
\
\
operation\
------------\
MODES\
There are four modes. Play mode is default. Play mode will begin a pattern on the button you press. A new pattern can be entered if you are in record mode. Up to eight steps can be entered directly on the button surface. Velocity mode enables you to enter a velocity value for each step. The steps are represented as rising bars . Duration/step mode is a bit more complex. The bottom row represents enable/disable states for each step. The seven buttons above each enable/disable toggle operate like the rising velocity bars. The lowest amount = 1 step which is equal to 1 16th note. Higher bars = longer notes for the corresponding step. \
\
The modes can be selected using your computer keyboard.\
\
1=play\
2=record\
3=velocity\
4=duration/step\
\
PATTERNS\
A bank of seven patterns are mapped to the top row of buttons on the monome. The top row is a radio group, with the lit button indicating which pattern you're currently playing or editing.\
\
LOOP SIZE\
The loop size can be smaller than eight steps if desired. \
\
HOLD PATTERN\
This check box displays the hold patten function. When enabled, patterns will continue to play until hold is switched off. Hold can be activated manually, or by toggling the top, right corner button on the monome.\
\
PITCH SETUP\
The row/coll setup determines the interval arrangement of the grid. The sequencer records buttons, not intervals, so the different pitch modes can be explored with the same recorded pitch layout. The diatonic filter constrains the pitch grid output to a modal scale. The output can be transposed using the note value box under diatonic filter. The third option, arbitrary map, corresponds the buttons exactly to a pitch map you determine. This is useful, for example, when using polygom\'e9 with drum sounds. The pitch map can be edited by double clicking the box labeled 'arbitrary pitch map'  Inside, you will see a grid of pitch boxes. You can save pitch maps by shift clicking in the preset object at the top.\
\
TILT OPTIONS\
Click the tilt setup button to calibrate tilt. Tilt output can be sent to any combination of duration scale, velocity scale and two arbitrary MIDI controller outputs.\
\
SUSTAIN PEDAL OPTIONS\
A sustain pedal plugged into a MIDI device can control pattern hold functionality and/or sustain triggered notes (send MIDI CC 64 messages)\
\
TRANSPOSE OPTIONS\
This area allows for real-time intelligent diatonic transposition of the pattern via MIDI controller. Once an input device is specified and a transpose mode is selected, the pattern can be shifted. Chord scale mode allows you to specify a key and mode combination and output a diatonically-correct transpose chord scale relative to that key. Direct access mode allows you to select mode key and mode directly with a MIDI controller. \
\
The scale degree and mode are mapped to the white keys starting at note 36 (C on a 61-note controller) the octave above that selects the key shift. This amount can be adjusted in octs with the oct control. All of the transpose options apply to the diatonic key mode specified in the pitch setup section. The key shift will continue to function in chromatic mode.\
\
GOMEIZER\
Coming up with a bunch of differing combinations of velocity, step, duration and cell steps. The gom\'e9izer enables you to randomize, within certain limits, some, or all of these parameters. \
\
The grid movement randomizes the X and Y grid movement you'd normally enter with the record function. 1 = no movement. 2 = small steps. 5 = larger steps.\
\
The next three groups of parameters all have four sliders. Each slider represents a group of four pulses - or four 16th notes, labeled 1 e a A.  This enables you to set parameters for the relative strong and weak beats of the entire phrase. \
\
Step probability randomizes the step parameter. High slider values = higher probability for a step on that beat. The duration and velocity sliders indicate a range in which a random value will be generated. The check boxes in each section determine if that parameter will be randomized.\
\
SYNC\
-------\
polygome can sync to other apps. Select 'beat clock' as source and select a MIDI port that sync is being set to from the external app. If you want to sync polygome from another Max app, you can send bangs to gome_pulse and turn off gome's internal clock. \
\
DATA FILE\
----------------\
You can save your pattern by using the data file write button. This will save all sequence, velocity, step and duration for a later performance. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
CHANGES v0.90\
-----------------------\
Added patterns\
\
The 'key' parameter also functions as an offset if you are in chromatic mode. I added patchthru on record because it seemed like the decent thing to do.\
\
\
CHANGES v0.91\
-----------------------\
Sacrificed one of the eight patterns to add a hold function. The eighth button on the top row will now hold a pattern when lit.\
\
Sustain pedal functionality. A sustain pedal plugged into a MIDI device can be routed to sustain notes, hold pattern or both.\
\
Stuck pattern bug when switching modes has been fixed.\
\
\
CHANGES v0.92\
-----------------------\
Revamped user interface.\
Fixed a bug where hold would not maintain relative temporal position\
Added transpose options\
Added tilt CC destinations\
Added MIDI refresh\
\
\
CHANGES v0.93\
------------------------\
Fixed a bug where patterns would not recall the correct relative cell transposition setting\
Fixed a bug where recording patterns would start on the wrong pulse\
Fixed a bug where velocities would not match the correct pulse\
\
CHANGES v0.94\
------------------------\
Added gom\'e9izer\
Fixed a tilt bug where only half the value gets transmitted to the CC destination\
Added tilt monitor\
Added the ability to edit velocities, duration, and step while a held pattern is playing\
\
CHANGES v0.95\
----------------------\
Added OSC support to tilt\
\
CHANGES v0.96\
-----------------------\
Added arbitrary pitch map\
\
CHANGES v0.97\
----------------------\
Added swing function\
Fixed preset bug with gom\'e9izer}